docs/modules/ROOT/pages/user-guide/dependency-management.adoc, before:

= Dependency management

A specific Camel Quarkus release is supposed to work only with a specific Quarkus release.

== Quarkus Universe BOM

The easiest and most straightforward way to get the dependency versions right is to use https://code.quarkus.io/[code.quarkus.io].
It will produce a project with the `io.quarkus:quarkus-universe-bom` set up in the `<depependencyManagement>` section
of your `pom.xml` file.

[NOTE]
====
BOM stands for "Bill of Materials" - it is a `pom.xml` whose main purpose is to manage the versions of artifacts
so that end users importing the BOM in their projects do not need to care which particular versions of the artifacts
are supposed to work together. In other words, having a BOM imported in the `<depependencyManagement>` section
of your `pom.xml` allows you to avoid specifying versions for the dependencies managed by the given BOM.
====

`quarkus-universe-bom` manages the artifacts from Quarkus, Camel Quarkus and other participating projects,
such as Hazelcast, Cassandra, Kogito, Optaplanner, etc.

This has the advantage that application developers do not need to care for the compatibility of the individual artifacts
that may come from various independent projects.
Note that not all combinations of artifacts managed by `quarkus-universe-bom` are tested.

Here is a stub of a `pom.xml` file generated by https://code.quarkus.io/[code.quarkus.io]:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<project>
  ...
  <properties>
    <quarkus.platform.version>{quarkus-version}</quarkus.platform.version>
    ...
  </properties>
  <dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
      <dependency>
        <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
        <artifactId>quarkus-universe-bom</artifactId>
        <version>${quarkus.platform.version}</version>
        <type>pom</type>
        <scope>import</scope><!-- The BOM is imported in the <dependencyManagement> -->
      </dependency>
    </dependencies>
  </dependencyManagement>

  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>camel-quarkus-timer</artifactId>
      <!-- No explicit version required here and below -->
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-resteasy</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-resteasy-jackson</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>camel-quarkus-ftp</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    ...
  </dependencies>
  ...
</project>
----

== Camel Quarkus BOM

As long as you do not plan to use any dependencies beyond those from Quarkus and Camel Quarkus,
you may consider switching to `org.apache.camel.quarkus:camel-quarkus-bom`.
It manages all supported Camel artifacts and imports `io.quarkus:quarkus-bom`.

== Combining with other BOMs

When combining `camel-quarkus-bom` or `quarkus-universe-bom` with any other BOM,
think carefully in which order you import them,
because the order of imports defines the precedence.

== What's next?

We recommend to continue with xref:user-guide/defining-camel-routes.adoc[Defining routes].

Commit message:

Add information about BOMs and precedence of them (#2912)
Add information about BOMs and their precedence

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/user-guide/dependency-management.adoc, after:

= Dependency management

A specific Camel Quarkus release is supposed to work only with a specific Quarkus release.

== Quarkus BOM 

The core Quarkus dependencies are managed via `io.quarkus:quarkus-bom`. 
This BOM doesn't manage the additional Quarkus extensions (Camel Quarkus, Kubernetes, ...), so there are other BOMs available for you to use in your projects that contain import `quarkus-bom`.

== Quarkus Universe BOM

The easiest and most straightforward way to get the dependency versions right is to use https://code.quarkus.io/[code.quarkus.io].
It will produce a project with the `io.quarkus:quarkus-universe-bom` set up in the `<depependencyManagement>` section
of your `pom.xml` file.

[NOTE]
====
BOM stands for "Bill of Materials" - it is a `pom.xml` whose main purpose is to manage the versions of artifacts
so that end users importing the BOM in their projects do not need to care which particular versions of the artifacts
are supposed to work together. In other words, having a BOM imported in the `<depependencyManagement>` section
of your `pom.xml` allows you to avoid specifying versions for the dependencies managed by the given BOM.
====

`quarkus-universe-bom` manages the artifacts from Quarkus, Camel Quarkus and other participating projects,
such as Hazelcast, Cassandra, Kogito, Optaplanner, etc.

This has the advantage that application developers do not need to care for the compatibility of the individual artifacts
that may come from various independent projects.
Note that not all combinations of artifacts managed by `quarkus-universe-bom` are tested.

Here is a stub of a `pom.xml` file generated by https://code.quarkus.io/[code.quarkus.io]:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<project>
  ...
  <properties>
    <quarkus.platform.version>{quarkus-version}</quarkus.platform.version>
    ...
  </properties>
  <dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
      <dependency>
        <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
        <artifactId>quarkus-universe-bom</artifactId>
        <version>${quarkus.platform.version}</version>
        <type>pom</type>
        <scope>import</scope><!-- The BOM is imported in the <dependencyManagement> -->
      </dependency>
    </dependencies>
  </dependencyManagement>

  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>camel-quarkus-timer</artifactId>
      <!-- No explicit version required here and below -->
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-resteasy</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-resteasy-jackson</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>camel-quarkus-ftp</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    ...
  </dependencies>
  ...
</project>
----

== Camel Quarkus BOM

As long as you do not plan to use any dependencies beyond those from Quarkus and Camel Quarkus,
you may consider switching to `org.apache.camel.quarkus:camel-quarkus-bom`.
It manages all supported Camel artifacts and imports `io.quarkus:quarkus-bom`.

== Combining with other BOMs

When combining `camel-quarkus-bom` or `quarkus-universe-bom` with any other BOM,
think carefully in which order you import them,
because the order of imports defines the precedence.

I.e. if `my-foo-bom` is imported before `camel-quarkus-bom` then the versions defined in
`my-foo-bom` will take the precedence. This might or might not be what you want, depending on whether there are any overlaps between `my-foo-bom` and `camel-quarkus-bom` and depending on whether those versions with higher precedence work with the rest of the artifacts managed in `camel-quarkus-bom`.

== What's next?

We recommend to continue with xref:user-guide/defining-camel-routes.adoc[Defining routes].
