docs/modules/ROOT/pages/reference/extensions/jpa.adoc, before:

// Do not edit directly!
// This file was generated by camel-quarkus-maven-plugin:update-extension-doc-page
[id="extensions-jpa"]
= JPA
:page-aliases: extensions/jpa.adoc
:linkattrs:
:cq-artifact-id: camel-quarkus-jpa
:cq-native-supported: true
:cq-status: Stable
:cq-status-deprecation: Stable
:cq-description: Store and retrieve Java objects from databases using Java Persistence API (JPA).
:cq-deprecated: false
:cq-jvm-since: 1.0.0
:cq-native-since: 1.0.0

ifeval::[{doc-show-badges} == true]
[.badges]
[.badge-key]##JVM since##[.badge-supported]##1.0.0## [.badge-key]##Native since##[.badge-supported]##1.0.0##
endif::[]

Store and retrieve Java objects from databases using Java Persistence API (JPA).

[id="extensions-jpa-whats-inside"]
== What's inside

* xref:{cq-camel-components}::jpa-component.adoc[JPA component], URI syntax: `jpa:entityType`

Please refer to the above link for usage and configuration details.

[id="extensions-jpa-maven-coordinates"]
== Maven coordinates

https://{link-quarkus-code-generator}/?extension-search=camel-quarkus-jpa[Create a new project with this extension on {link-quarkus-code-generator}, window="_blank"]

Or add the coordinates to your existing project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>camel-quarkus-jpa</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
ifeval::[{doc-show-user-guide-link} == true]
Check the xref:user-guide/index.adoc[User guide] for more information about writing Camel Quarkus applications.
endif::[]

[id="extensions-jpa-additional-camel-quarkus-configuration"]
== Additional Camel Quarkus configuration

The extension leverages https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm[Quarkus Hibernate ORM] to provide the JPA implementation via Hibernate.

Refer to the https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm[Quarkus Hibernate ORM] documentation to see how to configure Hibernate and your datasource,

When a single persistence unit is used, the Camel Quarkus JPA extension will automatically configure the JPA component with a
`EntityManagerFactory` and `TransactionManager`.

Commit message:

Springless JPA extension (#4049)
* Fix #4084 to reduce the spring dependecy in camel-quarkus-jpa

* remove spring-tx

* introduce QuarkusTransactionStraregy

* add license

* update doc

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/reference/extensions/jpa.adoc, after:

// Do not edit directly!
// This file was generated by camel-quarkus-maven-plugin:update-extension-doc-page
[id="extensions-jpa"]
= JPA
:page-aliases: extensions/jpa.adoc
:linkattrs:
:cq-artifact-id: camel-quarkus-jpa
:cq-native-supported: true
:cq-status: Stable
:cq-status-deprecation: Stable
:cq-description: Store and retrieve Java objects from databases using Java Persistence API (JPA).
:cq-deprecated: false
:cq-jvm-since: 1.0.0
:cq-native-since: 1.0.0

ifeval::[{doc-show-badges} == true]
[.badges]
[.badge-key]##JVM since##[.badge-supported]##1.0.0## [.badge-key]##Native since##[.badge-supported]##1.0.0##
endif::[]

Store and retrieve Java objects from databases using Java Persistence API (JPA).

[id="extensions-jpa-whats-inside"]
== What's inside

* xref:{cq-camel-components}::jpa-component.adoc[JPA component], URI syntax: `jpa:entityType`

Please refer to the above link for usage and configuration details.

[id="extensions-jpa-maven-coordinates"]
== Maven coordinates

https://{link-quarkus-code-generator}/?extension-search=camel-quarkus-jpa[Create a new project with this extension on {link-quarkus-code-generator}, window="_blank"]

Or add the coordinates to your existing project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>camel-quarkus-jpa</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
ifeval::[{doc-show-user-guide-link} == true]
Check the xref:user-guide/index.adoc[User guide] for more information about writing Camel Quarkus applications.
endif::[]

[id="extensions-jpa-additional-camel-quarkus-configuration"]
== Additional Camel Quarkus configuration

The extension leverages https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm[Quarkus Hibernate ORM] to provide the JPA implementation via Hibernate.

Refer to the https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm[Quarkus Hibernate ORM] documentation to see how to configure Hibernate and your datasource.

Also, it leverages https://quarkus.io/guides/transaction#programmatic-approach[Quarkus TX API] to provide `TransactionStrategy` implementation.

When a single persistence unit is used, the Camel Quarkus JPA extension will automatically configure the JPA component with a
`EntityManagerFactory` and `TransactionStrategy`.

=== Configuring JpaMessageIdRepository
It needs to use `EntityManagerFactory` and `TransactionStrategy` from the CDI container to configure the `JpaMessageIdRepository`:
[source, java]
----
@Inject
EntityManagerFactory entityManagerFactory;

@Inject
TransactionStrategy transactionStrategy;

from("direct:idempotent")
    .idempotentConsumer(
        header("messageId"),
        new JpaMessageIdRepository(entityManagerFactory, transactionStrategy, "idempotentProcessor"));
----

[NOTE]
====
Since it excludes the `spring-orm` dependency, some options such as `sharedEntityManager`, `transactionManager`  are not supported.
====
