docs/modules/ROOT/pages/reference/extensions/nitrite.adoc, before:

// Do not edit directly!
// This file was generated by camel-quarkus-maven-plugin:update-extension-doc-page
= Nitrite
:page-aliases: extensions/nitrite.adoc
:linkattrs:
:cq-artifact-id: camel-quarkus-nitrite
:cq-native-supported: true
:cq-status: Stable
:cq-status-deprecation: Stable
:cq-description: Access Nitrite databases.
:cq-deprecated: false
:cq-jvm-since: 1.0.0
:cq-native-since: 1.8.0

[.badges]
[.badge-key]##JVM since##[.badge-supported]##1.0.0## [.badge-key]##Native since##[.badge-supported]##1.8.0##

Access Nitrite databases.

== What's inside

* xref:{cq-camel-components}::nitrite-component.adoc[Nitrite component], URI syntax: `nitrite:database`

Please refer to the above link for usage and configuration details.

== Maven coordinates

https://code.quarkus.io/?extension-search=camel-quarkus-nitrite[Create a new project with this extension on code.quarkus.io, window="_blank"]

Or add the coordinates to your existing project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>camel-quarkus-nitrite</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

Check the xref:user-guide/index.adoc[User guide] for more information about writing Camel Quarkus applications.

== Usage

If your persistence objects implement `java.io.Serializable`, you have to add configuration of all serializable classes.
There is a new serialization support in GraalVM 21.0. Developers can configure classes
for serialization via the serialization configuration file
`-H:SerializationConfigurationResources=/path/to-serialization-config.json` option. For more
information see https://github.com/oracle/graal/pull/2730[PR with feature].

If your persistence objects implement `org.dizitart.no2.mapper.Mappable`. All classes have to
implement also `java.io.Serializable` and have to be registered for serialization (see previous option),
even though the Java serialization won't be used.

Commit message:

Use of serialization feature of Quakus (includes Sql and Nitrite)

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/reference/extensions/nitrite.adoc, after:

// Do not edit directly!
// This file was generated by camel-quarkus-maven-plugin:update-extension-doc-page
= Nitrite
:page-aliases: extensions/nitrite.adoc
:linkattrs:
:cq-artifact-id: camel-quarkus-nitrite
:cq-native-supported: true
:cq-status: Stable
:cq-status-deprecation: Stable
:cq-description: Access Nitrite databases.
:cq-deprecated: false
:cq-jvm-since: 1.0.0
:cq-native-since: 1.8.0

[.badges]
[.badge-key]##JVM since##[.badge-supported]##1.0.0## [.badge-key]##Native since##[.badge-supported]##1.8.0##

Access Nitrite databases.

== What's inside

* xref:{cq-camel-components}::nitrite-component.adoc[Nitrite component], URI syntax: `nitrite:database`

Please refer to the above link for usage and configuration details.

== Maven coordinates

https://code.quarkus.io/?extension-search=camel-quarkus-nitrite[Create a new project with this extension on code.quarkus.io, window="_blank"]

Or add the coordinates to your existing project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>camel-quarkus-nitrite</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

Check the xref:user-guide/index.adoc[User guide] for more information about writing Camel Quarkus applications.

== Usage

If your persistence objects in native mode implement `java.io.Serializable` and are not automatically registered for serialization,
you have to register them for serialization. Look into xref:extensions/core.adoc#serialization_in_native_mode[documentation]
to see which classes are registered and how to register other ones.


If your persistence objects implement `org.dizitart.no2.mapper.Mappable`. All classes have to
implement also `java.io.Serializable` and have to be registered for serialization (see previous option),
even though the Java serialization won't be used.
