docs/modules/ROOT/pages/reference/extensions/vertx-http.adoc, before:

// Do not edit directly!
// This file was generated by camel-quarkus-maven-plugin:update-extension-doc-page
[id="extensions-vertx-http"]
= Vert.x HTTP Client
:linkattrs:
:cq-artifact-id: camel-quarkus-vertx-http
:cq-native-supported: true
:cq-status: Stable
:cq-status-deprecation: Stable
:cq-description: Camel HTTP client support with Vert.x
:cq-deprecated: false
:cq-jvm-since: 1.1.0
:cq-native-since: 1.1.0

ifeval::[{doc-show-badges} == true]
[.badges]
[.badge-key]##JVM since##[.badge-supported]##1.1.0## [.badge-key]##Native since##[.badge-supported]##1.1.0##
endif::[]

Camel HTTP client support with Vert.x

[id="extensions-vertx-http-whats-inside"]
== What's inside

* xref:{cq-camel-components}::vertx-http-component.adoc[Vert.x HTTP Client component], URI syntax: `vertx-http:httpUri`

Please refer to the above link for usage and configuration details.

[id="extensions-vertx-http-maven-coordinates"]
== Maven coordinates

https://{link-quarkus-code-generator}/?extension-search=camel-quarkus-vertx-http[Create a new project with this extension on {link-quarkus-code-generator}, window="_blank"]

Or add the coordinates to your existing project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>camel-quarkus-vertx-http</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
ifeval::[{doc-show-user-guide-link} == true]
Check the xref:user-guide/index.adoc[User guide] for more information about writing Camel Quarkus applications.
endif::[]

[id="extensions-vertx-http-transferexception-option-in-native-mode"]
== transferException option in native mode

To use the `transferException` option in native mode, you must enable support for object serialization. Refer to the xref:user-guide/native-mode.adoc#serialization[native mode user guide]
for more information.

You will also need to enable serialization for the exception classes that you intend to serialize. For example.
[source,java]
----
@RegisterForReflection(targets = { IllegalStateException.class, MyCustomException.class }, serialization = true)
----

[id="extensions-vertx-http-additional-camel-quarkus-configuration"]
== Additional Camel Quarkus configuration

[id="extensions-vertx-http-configuration-character-encodings"]
=== Character encodings

Check the xref:user-guide/native-mode.adoc#charsets[Character encodings section] of the Native mode guide if the application is expected to send and receive requests using non-default encodings.

Commit message:

vertx-http: complete allowJavaSerializedObject doc

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/reference/extensions/vertx-http.adoc, after:

// Do not edit directly!
// This file was generated by camel-quarkus-maven-plugin:update-extension-doc-page
[id="extensions-vertx-http"]
= Vert.x HTTP Client
:linkattrs:
:cq-artifact-id: camel-quarkus-vertx-http
:cq-native-supported: true
:cq-status: Stable
:cq-status-deprecation: Stable
:cq-description: Camel HTTP client support with Vert.x
:cq-deprecated: false
:cq-jvm-since: 1.1.0
:cq-native-since: 1.1.0

ifeval::[{doc-show-badges} == true]
[.badges]
[.badge-key]##JVM since##[.badge-supported]##1.1.0## [.badge-key]##Native since##[.badge-supported]##1.1.0##
endif::[]

Camel HTTP client support with Vert.x

[id="extensions-vertx-http-whats-inside"]
== What's inside

* xref:{cq-camel-components}::vertx-http-component.adoc[Vert.x HTTP Client component], URI syntax: `vertx-http:httpUri`

Please refer to the above link for usage and configuration details.

[id="extensions-vertx-http-maven-coordinates"]
== Maven coordinates

https://{link-quarkus-code-generator}/?extension-search=camel-quarkus-vertx-http[Create a new project with this extension on {link-quarkus-code-generator}, window="_blank"]

Or add the coordinates to your existing project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.camel.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>camel-quarkus-vertx-http</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
ifeval::[{doc-show-user-guide-link} == true]
Check the xref:user-guide/index.adoc[User guide] for more information about writing Camel Quarkus applications.
endif::[]

[id="extensions-vertx-http-transferexception-option-in-native-mode"]
== transferException option in native mode

To use the `transferException` option in native mode, you must enable support for object serialization. Refer to the xref:user-guide/native-mode.adoc#serialization[native mode user guide]
for more information.

You will also need to enable serialization for the exception classes that you intend to serialize. For example.
[source,java]
----
@RegisterForReflection(targets = { IllegalStateException.class, MyCustomException.class }, serialization = true)
----

[id="extensions-vertx-http-additional-camel-quarkus-configuration"]
== Additional Camel Quarkus configuration

[id="extensions-vertx-http-configuration-allowjavaserializedobject-option-in-native-mode"]
== allowJavaSerializedObject option in native mode

When using the `allowJavaSerializedObject` option in native mode, the support of serialization might need to be enabled.
Please, refer to the xref:user-guide/native-mode.adoc#serialization[native mode user guide] for more information.

[id="extensions-vertx-http-configuration-character-encodings"]
=== Character encodings

Check the xref:user-guide/native-mode.adoc#charsets[Character encodings section] of the Native mode guide if the application is expected to send and receive requests using non-default encodings.
